dbt Core and DuckDB Quickstart (#5783)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/duckdb-qs.md

### Related content

- [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

### Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for use in both local environments and web browsers.

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

1. First, you'll need to clone this repository.

>     git clone <add name of git repo for this duckdb example>

Author: ```suggestion
For more information, read the [Git Guide](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone)
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

You can access the repository for DuckDB by following the URL:

```bash
https://github.com/duckdb/duckdb.git
```

To clone the DuckDB repository, use the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/duckdb/duckdb.git
```

```

### Related content

- [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

### Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for use in both local environments and web browsers.

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

1. First, you'll need to clone this repository.

>     ```bash

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: Quickstart for dbt Core using DuckDB
id: duckdb
description: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
hoverSnippet: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
platform: 'dbt-core'
icon: 'duckdb-seeklogo'
level: 'Beginner'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Core','Quickstart']
---

<div style={{maxWidth: '900px'}}>

## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Core with DuckDB, enabling you to get set up quickly and efficiently. [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) is an open-source database management system which is designed for analytical workloads. It is designed to provide fast and easy access to large datasets, making it well-suited for data analytics tasks. 

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

> - Create an online development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.

Author: ```suggestion
- Create an virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.
```

> - Create an virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.

Author: ```suggestion
- Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.
```

### Related content

- [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

### Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for use in both local environments and web browsers.

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

1. First, you'll need to clone this repository.

    ```bash
    git clone <add name of git repo for this duckdb example>

>     ```

Author: ```suggestion

```

    ```

2. Change into the docs-duckdb directory from the command line:

```Jinja

cd docs-duckdb

```

3. Install dbt and DuckDB in a virtual environment.

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for MAC" >

    ```Jinja

    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    source venv/bin/activate

    ```
    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows" >

    ```Jinja

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat

    ```

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows PowerShell" >

    ```Jinja

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    ```
    </Expandable>

4. Ensure your profile is setup correctly from the command line by running the following:

    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files

>     - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) — compiles and runs your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash;  compiles and runs your project
```

>     - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash;  compiles and runs your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
```

>     - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) — compiles and tests your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash;  compiles and tests your project
```

>     - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash;  compiles and tests your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
```

>     - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) — compiles, runs, and tests your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash;  compiles, runs, and tests your project
```

>     - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash;  compiles, runs, and tests your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project
```

>     - [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-generate) - generates your project's documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-generate) &mdash; generates your project's documentation.
```

>     - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) - starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) &mdash; starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.
```

1. Wait for the codespace to finish building by waiting for the `postCreateCommand` command to complete; this can take several minutes:

    <Lightbox src="/img/codespace-quickstart/postCreateCommand.png" title="Wait for postCreateCommand to complete" />

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    

>     - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) — generates executable SQL from your project source files

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
```

>     - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) — compiles and runs your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
```

>     - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) — compiles and tests your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
```

>     - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) — compiles, runs, and tests your project

Author: ```suggestion
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project
```

- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

### Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for use in both local environments and web browsers.

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

1. First, you'll need to clone this repository.

    ```bash
    git clone <add name of git repo for this duckdb example>
    ```

2. Change into the docs-duckdb directory from the command line:

> ```Jinja

Reviewer: sugg indenting this code block so it aligns with the step

cd docs-duckdb

```

3. Install dbt and DuckDB in a virtual environment.

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for MAC" >

    ```Jinja

    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    source venv/bin/activate

    ```
    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows" >

    ```Jinja

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat

    ```

>     ```

Reviewer: the 3rd expandable is not rendering on the page in the preview. it might be bc there is a duplicate closing code block so sugg removing it

```suggestion
```

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows PowerShell" >

    ```Jinja

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    ```
    </Expandable>

4. Ensure your profile is setup correctly from the command line by running the following:

>     - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) — generates executable SQL from your project source files

Reviewer: by convention, em dashes are preferred in techdocs (vs en dashes).

sugg replacing all with em dashes. here's the syntax:

```suggestion
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
```

    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) — compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) — compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) — compiles, runs, and tests your project
    - [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-generate) - generates your project's documentation.
    - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) - starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.

> For detailed information, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).
```

> :::note Note.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
```

> NOTE: If you decide to run this project in your own data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo) and steps fail, it might mean that you need to make small changes to the SQL in the models folder to adjust for the flavor of SQL of your target database. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you decide to run this project in your own data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo) and steps fail, it might mean that you need to make small changes to the SQL in the models folder to adjust for the flavor of SQL of your target database. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.
```

:::

### Troubleshoot

> You may get an error like the one in the example below, in which case you will need to disconnect from any sessions that are locking the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Expandable alt_header="Could not set lock on file error" >

```Jinja

IO Error: Could not set lock on file "jaffle_shop.duckdb": Resource temporarily unavailable

```

> This is a known issue in DuckDB. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a known issue in DuckDB. Try disconnecting from any sessions that are locking the database. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).
```

1. Wait for the codespace to finish building by waiting for the `postCreateCommand` command to complete; this can take several minutes:

    <Lightbox src="/img/codespace-quickstart/postCreateCommand.png" title="Wait for postCreateCommand to complete" />

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    

>     - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) — generates executable SQL from your project source files

Reviewer: use em dashes in this list too 

`&mdash;`

---
title: Quickstart for dbt Core using DuckDB
id: duckdb
description: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
hoverSnippet: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
platform: 'dbt-core'
icon: 'duckdb-seeklogo'
level: 'Beginner'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Core','Quickstart']
---

<div style={{maxWidth: '900px'}}>

## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Core with DuckDB, enabling you to get set up quickly and efficiently. [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) is an open-source database management system which is designed for analytical workloads. It is designed to provide fast and easy access to large datasets, making it well-suited for data analytics tasks. 

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

- Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.

>    - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.

Reviewer 2: These instructions appear to remove the Codespace workflows and run everything locally. Is that correct?

```suggestion
   - This creates a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The DuckDB database will be installed locally on your machine and load a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.
```

   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 

> - Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, 5 years of data instead of just one).

Reviewer 2: We don't really state in our style guide how numbers should be written, but most of us stick to words unless it s 
 list of steps or a value. However you choose to do it should be consistent:
```suggestion
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).
```

> You can learn [dbt Learn courses](https://learn.getdbt.com) through high-quality courses and workshops.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 
```

### Related content

- [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

### Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

> The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for use in both local environments and web browsers.

Reviewer 2: Looks like we removed the web browsers portion
```suggestion
The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for local environments on macOS and Windows.
```

> The following will provide a step-by-step guide on setting up DuckDB for use in both local environments and web browsers.

Reviewer 2: Suggest we call out the supported OS
```suggestion
The following provides a step-by-step guide for setting up DuckDB for use in local (Mac and Windows) environments and web browsers.
```

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDBsetup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

> 1. First, you'll need to clone this repository.

Reviewer 2: It might be more concise to combine the three lines:

```suggestion
1. First, you'll need to [clone](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone) the Jaffle Shop repository by running the following command in your terminal:
```

>     For a more comprehensive understanding and additional information, refer to the [Git Guide](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>     You can access the repository for DuckDB by following the URL:

Reviewer 2: This is a great first step! We should always strive to describe in detail what a user will be doing with a link we're giving them so there is no confusion. I suggest something like this:
```suggestion
    You can clone the repository for DuckDB by running the following command in your terminal:
```

>     You can access the repository for DuckDB by following the URL:

Reviewer 2: Combine the first three lines to make the instructions more concise
```suggestion
```

    ```bash

>     git clone https://github.com.dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb.git

Reviewer 2: I want to update this repo before we publish this guide for customers. It's a few versions behind and we can update it to v1.8 without too much trouble. I'll take care of this

Reviewer 3: hey @matthewshaver has this been updated?

    ```

2. Change into the docs-duckdb directory from the command line:

>     ```Jinja

Reviewer 2: For this (and the other code blocks on this page), we should use the `shell` format rather than `jinja`. Using jinja won't break anything, but it would benefit us and the customer to display the commands in the accurate format.

```suggestion
    ```shell
```

    cd jaffle_shop_duck_db

    ```

> 3. Install dbt and DuckDB in a virtual environment.

Reviewer 2: When referring to features, we sometimes say just `dbt`, but when referencing the products, it should always be either `dbt Core` or `dbt Cloud`
```suggestion
3. Install dbt Core and DuckDB in a virtual environment.
```

>     <Expandable alt_header="Example for MAC" >

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Mac" >
```

>     ```Jinja

Reviewer 2: Same feedback as above
```suggestion
    ```shell
```

    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip

>     python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt

Reviewer 2: At the start of this article, we should point out that the `requirements.txt` file will be referenced to install Core, DuckDB, and every dependency they have. Let them know they can review this file to see everything that will be installed on their machine.

    source venv/bin/activate

    ```
    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows" >

>     ```Jinja

Reviewer 2: Same as above
```suggestion
    ```shell
```

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat

    ```

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows PowerShell" >

>     ```Jinja

Reviewer 2: Same as above
```suggestion
    ```shell
```

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    ```
    </Expandable>

4. Ensure your profile is setup correctly from the command line by running the following:

    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project
    - [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-generate) &mdash; generates your project's documentation.
    - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) &mdash; starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.

    For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

:::note

> If you decide to run this project in your own data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo) and steps fail, it might mean that you need to make small changes to the SQL in the models folder to adjust for the flavor of SQL of your target database. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

Reviewer 2: It will most certainly fail elsewhere - they'll have to reconfigure their project files
```suggestion
The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.
```

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

- Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.
   - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.
   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).

You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 

### Related content

- [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer 3: i would recommend turnign this to an h2?

> ### Prerequisites

Author: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

This section will provide a step-by-step guide for setting up DuckDB for use in local (Mac and Windows) environments and web browsers.

In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.

The `requirements.txt` file is placed at the top level of your dbt project directory, alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:

```shell

/my_dbt_project/
├── dbt_project.yml
├── models/
│   ├── my_model.sql
├── tests/
│   ├── my_test.sql
└── requirements.txt

```

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

> 1. First, [clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en) the Jaffle Shop git repository by running the following command in your terminal:

Author: ```suggestion
1. First, [clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone) the Jaffle Shop git repository by running the following command in your terminal:
```

> 1. First, [clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en) the Jaffle Shop git repository by running the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer 3: this link returns a 404

> 1. First, you'll need to [clone](https://github.com/git-guides/git-clone) the Jaffle Shop repository by running the following command in your terminal:

Reviewer: sugg linking to this page instead. the `git` package is used by several providers

```suggestion
1. First, [clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone/en) the Jaffle Shop git repository by running the following command in your terminal:
```

    ```bash

>     git clone https://github.com.dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb.git

Reviewer 3: this link is wrong, it should be updated to the right one
```suggestion
    git clone https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb.git
```

    ```

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows PowerShell" >

    ```shell

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    ```
    </Expandable>

4. Ensure your profile is setup correctly from the command line by running the following:

    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project
    - [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-generate) &mdash; generates your project's documentation.
    - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) &mdash; starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.

> 

Author: Here's what a successful output will look like:

```jinja

(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
....

15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Here's what a successful output will look like:

```jinja

(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
....

15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28
```

    For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

> 

Reviewer 3: it might be beneficial for both tabs (local and web browser) to add a screenshot or code snippet of what successful output looks like.

Reviewer 3: e.g. a shorter version of this (its too long)
```
(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  1 of 28 OK loaded seed file main.raw_customers ................................. [INSERT 100 in 0.19s]
15:10:14  2 of 28 OK loaded seed file main.raw_orders .................................... [INSERT 99 in 0.20s]
15:10:14  4 of 28 START sql view model main.stg_customers ................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 OK loaded seed file main.raw_payments .................................. [INSERT 113 in 0.21s]
15:10:14  5 of 28 START sql view model main.stg_orders ................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  6 of 28 START sql view model main.stg_payments ................................. [RUN]
15:10:14  4 of 28 OK created sql view model main.stg_customers ........................... [OK in 0.16s]
15:10:14  5 of 28 OK created sql view model main.stg_orders .............................. [OK in 0.15s]
15:10:14  7 of 28 START test not_null_stg_customers_customer_id .......................... [RUN]
15:10:14  8 of 28 START test unique_stg_customers_customer_id ............................ [RUN]
15:10:14  6 of 28 OK created sql view model main.stg_payments ............................ [OK in 0.16s]
15:10:14  9 of 28 START test accepted_values_stg_orders_status__placed__shipped__completed__return_pending__returned  [RUN]
15:10:14  10 of 28 START test not_null_stg_orders_order_id ............................... [RUN]
15:10:14  11 of 28 START test unique_stg_orders_order_id ................................. [RUN]
15:10:14  12 of 28 START test accepted_values_stg_payments_payment_method__credit_card__coupon__bank_transfer__gift_card  [RUN]
15:10:14  13 of 28 START test not_null_stg_payments_payment_id ........................... [RUN]
15:10:14  14 of 28 START test unique_stg_payments_payment_id ............................. [RUN]
15:10:14  7 of 28 PASS not_null_stg_customers_customer_id ................................ [PASS in 0.25s]
15:10:14  10 of 28 PASS not_null_stg_orders_order_id ..................................... [PASS in 0.22s]
15:10:14  11 of 28 PASS unique_stg_orders_order_id ....................................... [PASS in 0.22s]
15:10:14  8 of 28 PASS unique_stg_customers_customer_id .................................. [PASS in 0.26s]
15:10:14  9 of 28 PASS accepted_values_stg_orders_status__placed__shipped__completed__return_pending__returned  [PASS in 0.23s]
15:10:14  13 of 28 PASS not_null_stg_payments_payment_id ................................. [PASS in 0.22s]
15:10:14  12 of 28 PASS accepted_values_stg_payments_payment_method__credit_card__coupon__bank_transfer__gift_card  [PASS in 0.22s]
15:10:14  14 of 28 PASS unique_stg_payments_payment_id ................................... [PASS in 0.22s]
15:10:14  15 of 28 START sql table model main.customers .................................. [RUN]
15:10:14  16 of 28 START sql table model main.orders ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  16 of 28 OK created sql table model main.orders ................................ [OK in 0.13s]
15:10:14  17 of 28 START test accepted_values_orders_status__placed__shipped__completed__return_pending__returned  [RUN]
15:10:14  15 of 28 OK created sql table model main.customers ............................. [OK in 0.15s]
15:10:14  18 of 28 START test not_null_orders_amount ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  19 of 28 START test not_null_orders_bank_transfer_amount ....................... [RUN]
15:10:14  20 of 28 START test not_null_orders_coupon_amount .............................. [RUN]
15:10:14  21 of 28 START test not_null_orders_credit_card_amount ......................... [RUN]
15:10:14  22 of 28 START test not_null_orders_customer_id ................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  23 of 28 START test not_null_orders_gift_card_amount ........................... [RUN]
15:10:14  24 of 28 START test not_null_orders_order_id ................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  25 of 28 START test unique_orders_order_id ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:15  26 of 28 START test not_null_customers_customer_id ............................. [RUN]
15:10:15  27 of 28 START test relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_  [RUN]
15:10:15  28 of 28 START test unique_customers_customer_id ............................... [RUN]
15:10:15  17 of 28 PASS accepted_values_orders_status__placed__shipped__completed__return_pending__returned  [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  19 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_bank_transfer_amount ............................. [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  18 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_amount ........................................... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  21 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_credit_card_amount ............................... [PASS in 0.34s]
15:10:15  22 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_customer_id ...................................... [PASS in 0.34s]
15:10:15  20 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_coupon_amount .................................... [PASS in 0.34s]
15:10:15  24 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_order_id ......................................... [PASS in 0.34s]
15:10:15  23 of 28 PASS not_null_orders_gift_card_amount ................................. [PASS in 0.35s]
15:10:15  25 of 28 PASS unique_orders_order_id ........................................... [PASS in 0.35s]
15:10:15  26 of 28 PASS not_null_customers_customer_id ................................... [PASS in 0.31s]
15:10:15  28 of 28 PASS unique_customers_customer_id ..................................... [PASS in 0.31s]
15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28
```

:::note

The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

:::

### Troubleshoot

   <Expandable alt_header="Could not set lock on file error" >

    ```Jinja

    IO Error: Could not set lock on file "jaffle_shop.duckdb": Resource temporarily unavailable

    ```

    This is a known issue in DuckDB. Try disconnecting from any sessions that are locking the database. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).

    As a last resort, deleting the database file will get you back in action (_but_ you will lose all your data).

   </Expandable>

</TabItem>
 
<TabItem value="web" label="Web browser">

> 1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop-template) after you log in to your GitHub account. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) after you log in to your GitHub account. 
```

> 1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop-template) after you log in to your GitHub account. 

Reviewer 3: is this the right template we want to share? it looks like its archived?  should [this be used](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) instead?
![Screenshot 2024-10-14 at 15 54 38](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/313ecc79-f27d-4454-889e-41373313c768)

Reviewer 3: if the link is incorrect, then do the steps in the 'web browser' tab need changing?

Reviewer 3: hey @nataliefiann , i noticed you changed the link but i would recommend triple checking this with the sme

1. Click **Use this template** at the top of the page and choose **Create new repository**.

> 1. Click **Create repository from template** when you’re done setting the options for your new repository.

Reviewer 3: are the instructions here updated? it says 'codespace' environment but this is for duckdb?

Author: Thanks for this Mirna, I'll shoot a message across to Anders about this

---
title: Quickstart for dbt Core using DuckDB
id: duckdb
description: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
hoverSnippet: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
platform: 'dbt-core'
icon: 'duckdb-seeklogo'
level: 'Beginner'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Core','Quickstart']
---

<div style={{maxWidth: '900px'}}>

## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Core with DuckDB, enabling you to get set up quickly and efficiently. [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) is an open-source database management system which is designed for analytical workloads. It is designed to provide fast and easy access to large datasets, making it well-suited for data analytics tasks. 

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

- Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.
   - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.

>    - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.

Author: ```suggestion
   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop?tab=readme-ov-file#-the-jaffle-shop-) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
```

- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).

You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 

### Related content

- [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

## Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

This section will provide a step-by-step guide for setting up DuckDB for use in local (Mac and Windows) environments and web browsers.

> In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.

Author: ```suggestion
In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/requirements.txt) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.
```

The `requirements.txt` file is placed at the top level of your dbt project directory, alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:

```shell

/my_dbt_project/
├── dbt_project.yml
├── models/
│   ├── my_model.sql
├── tests/
│   ├── my_test.sql
└── requirements.txt

```

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="local" label="Local">

> 1. First, [clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone) the Jaffle Shop git repository by running the following command in your terminal:

Author: ```suggestion
1. First, [clone](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-clone) the Jaffle Shop git repository by running the following command in your terminal:
```

15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28
    For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

:::note

The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

:::

### Troubleshoot

   <Expandable alt_header="Could not set lock on file error" >

    ```Jinja

    IO Error: Could not set lock on file "jaffle_shop.duckdb": Resource temporarily unavailable

    ```

    This is a known issue in DuckDB. Try disconnecting from any sessions that are locking the database. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).

    As a last resort, deleting the database file will get you back in action (_but_ you will lose all your data).

   </Expandable>

</TabItem>
 
<TabItem value="web" label="Web browser">

> 1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) after you log in to your GitHub account. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) after you log in to your GitHub account. 
```

> 1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) after you log in to your GitHub account. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) after you log in to your GitHub account. 
```

For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).
Here's what a successful output will look like:

```jinja

(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
....

15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28

```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
To query data, some useful commands you can run from the command line: 

- [`dbt show`](/reference/commands/show) &mdash; run a query against the data warehouse and preview the results in the terminal.
- [`dbt source`](/reference/commands/source) &mdash; provides subcommands such as [`dbt source freshness`](/reference/commands/source#dbt-source-freshness) that are useful when working with source data. 
   - `dbt source freshness` &mdash; checks the freshness (how up to date) a specific source table is.
```

- [Create a virtual development environment](/docs/core/pip-install#using-virtual-environments) using a template provided by dbt Labs.
   - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.
   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).

You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 

### Related content

- [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)

> - [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

Author: ```suggestion

```

1. Click **Use this template** at the top of the page and choose **Create new repository**.
1. Click **Create repository from template** when you’re done setting the options for your new repository.
1. Click **Code** (at the top of the new repository’s page). Under the **Codespaces** tab,  choose **Create codespace on main**. Depending on how you've configured your computer's settings, this either opens a new browser tab with the Codespace development environment with VSCode running in it or opens a new VSCode window with the codespace in it. 
1. Wait for the codespace to finish building by waiting for the `postCreateCommand` command to complete; this can take several minutes:

    <Lightbox src="/img/codespace-quickstart/postCreateCommand.png" title="Wait for postCreateCommand to complete" />

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

>     You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.

Author: ```suggestion
    You can also use the [duckcli](https://duckdb.org/docs/api/cli/overview.html) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
```

    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Generate a larger data set

If you'd like to work with a larger selection of Jaffle Shop data, you can generate an arbitrary number of years of fictitious data from within your codespace. 

1. Install the Python package called [jafgen](https://pypi.org/project/jafgen/). At the terminal's prompt, run:

    ```shell

>     /workspaces/test (main) $ python -m pip install jafgen

Author: ```suggestion
    python -m pip install jafgen
```

---
title: Quickstart for dbt Core using DuckDB
id: duckdb
description: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
hoverSnippet: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
platform: 'dbt-core'

> icon: 'duckdb-seeklogo'

Reviewer 3: icon looks great in light mode but a little diff to view in dark mode as an fyi:

<img width="437" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-23 at 12 41 17" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/df5572cb-a8d1-43e7-bf4e-7a07c5804c0b" />

level: 'Beginner'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Core','Quickstart']
---

<div style={{maxWidth: '900px'}}>

## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Core with DuckDB, enabling you to get set up quickly and efficiently. [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) is an open-source database management system which is designed for analytical workloads. It is designed to provide fast and easy access to large datasets, making it well-suited for data analytics tasks. 

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

> - Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.

Reviewer 3: non blocker, maybe we should link to the template ?

> - Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.

Author: ```suggestion
- [Create a virtual development environment](/docs/core/pip-install#using-virtual-environments) using a template provided by dbt Labs.
```

   - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.
   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).

You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 

### Related content

- [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)

> - [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)

Reviewer 3: the rest of these steps link to a diff quickstart, not sure if that's intentional?

Author: Hiya @mirnawong1 

Yep - this was intentional. The DuckDB one was to point users to the DuckDB setup page for general info on DuckDB and the GitHub one links users on the page in the DuckDB QS on how to create a repo (if they don't have one setup already.

I can remove these / change the links if you think it's best.

Kind Regards
Natalie

- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)

> - [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

Reviewer 3: is this link rigth? its not really a job link but a dbt run in the terminal link?

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb.git

    ```

2. Change into the docs-duckdb directory from the command line:

    ```shell

    cd jaffle_shop_duck_db

    ```

3. Install dbt Core and DuckDB in a virtual environment.

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Mac" >

    ```shell

    python3 -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate
    python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    source venv/bin/activate

    ```
    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows" >

    ```shell

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat

    ```

    </Expandable>

    <Expandable alt_header="Example for Windows PowerShell" >

    ```shell

    python -m venv venv
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1
    python -m pip install --upgrade pip
    python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
    venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1

    ```
    </Expandable>

> 4. Ensure your profile is setup correctly from the command line by running the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Ensure your profile is setup correctly from the command line by running the following [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands).
```

>     - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files

Reviewer 3: reminder to use relative paths, same for the remaining
```suggestion
    - [dbt compile](/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
```

    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project
    - [dbt docs generate](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-generate) &mdash; generates your project's documentation.
    - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) &mdash; starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.

> 

Reviewer 3: might be helpful to add somewhere here that once they do this, they should now have a models folder with staging and marts (i think?) where thy can perform transformations following the version control principles:

<img width="1025" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-23 at 13 00 06" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4e97723d-9eb8-43da-9b82-a2055c103eaf" />

> Here's what a successful output will look like:

Reviewer 3: in addition to a successful output, i think it might be helpful to provide users with useful commands they're need to query data. e.g dbt show, etc.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).
```

```jinja

(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
....

15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28

```

> For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

Reviewer 3: suggest moving this up higher so it isn't lost
```suggestion
```

:::note

> The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

Reviewer 3: 🥇

1. Click **Use this template** at the top of the page and choose **Create new repository**.
1. Click **Create repository from template** when you’re done setting the options for your new repository.
1. Click **Code** (at the top of the new repository’s page). Under the **Codespaces** tab,  choose **Create codespace on main**. Depending on how you've configured your computer's settings, this either opens a new browser tab with the Codespace development environment with VSCode running in it or opens a new VSCode window with the codespace in it. 
1. Wait for the codespace to finish building by waiting for the `postCreateCommand` command to complete; this can take several minutes:

    <Lightbox src="/img/codespace-quickstart/postCreateCommand.png" title="Wait for postCreateCommand to complete" />

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

>     You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.

Reviewer 3: just a heads up the cli repo says it archived but i can't find anything else so maybe it's ok?

    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    

>     - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files

Reviewer 3: reminder to use relative path for urls. same for the rest

```suggestion
    - [dbt compile](/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
```

    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Generate a larger data set

If you'd like to work with a larger selection of Jaffle Shop data, you can generate an arbitrary number of years of fictitious data from within your codespace. 

1. Install the Python package called [jafgen](https://pypi.org/project/jafgen/). At the terminal's prompt, run:

    ```shell

>     /workspaces/test (main) $ python -m pip install jafgen

Reviewer 3: also i made the silly mistake of copying the whole thing, can we clarify that users shouldn't copy `workspaces/test (main)` or maybe remove that and just include teh command in the example to avoid confusion?

    ```

1. When installation is done, run:
    ```shell

>     /workspaces/test (main) $ jafgen --years NUMBER_OF_YEARS

Reviewer 3: this didn't seem to work for me, can we provide users with an example of what the command looks like?

<img width="709" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-23 at 12 51 38" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/043a5d50-d8e6-4255-bd12-5030ee031b54" />
<img width="701" alt="Screenshot 2024-12-23 at 12 52 46" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/27153e2d-80a6-4011-87e5-51d7256b30a8" />

    ``` 
    Replace `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` with the number of years you want to simulate. This command builds the CSV files and stores them in the `jaffle-data` folder, and is automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` file and the [dbt-duckdb](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup) adapter.

As you increase the number of years, it takes exponentially more time to generate the data because the Jaffle Shop stores grow in size and number. For a good balance of data size and time to build, dbt Labs suggests a maximum of 6 years.

> 

Reviewer 3: curious if we want to add add'l steps to this quickstart guide, similar to the core install? e.g.:
- document project
- commit changes
- schedule a job
- what's next? add a confetti (optional)
-

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ```

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28

Author: ```suggestion

```

## Generate a larger data set

If you'd like to work with a larger selection of Jaffle Shop data, you can generate an arbitrary number of years of fictitious data from within your codespace. 

1. Install the Python package called [jafgen](https://pypi.org/project/jafgen/). At the terminal's prompt, run:

    ```shell
    python -m pip install jafgen
    ```

1. When installation is done, run:
    ```shell

>     /workspaces/test (main) $ jafgen --years NUMBER_OF_YEARS

Author: ```suggestion
    jafgen [number of years to generate] # e.g. jafgen 6
```

>     ``` 

Author: Tested with `jafgen 6` and works (attached)
![Uploading Screenshot 2024-12-24 at 13.19.06.png…]()

Reviewer 4: This did not work for me:
![Uploading Screenshot 2025-03-07 at 1.46.19 PM.png…]()

    Replace `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` with the number of years you want to simulate. This command builds the CSV files and stores them in the `jaffle-data` folder, and is automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` file and the [dbt-duckdb](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup) adapter.

As you increase the number of years, it takes exponentially more time to generate the data because the Jaffle Shop stores grow in size and number. For a good balance of data size and time to build, dbt Labs suggests a maximum of 6 years.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
## Next steps

Now that you understand the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing changes and, scheduling a job. 

### Document a job

### Commit changes

### Schedule a job
```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  Completed successfully

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ....

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:14  

Author: ```suggestion

```

## Generate a larger data set

If you'd like to work with a larger selection of Jaffle Shop data, you can generate an arbitrary number of years of fictitious data from within your codespace. 

1. Install the Python package called [jafgen](https://pypi.org/project/jafgen/). At the terminal's prompt, run:

    ```shell
    python -m pip install jafgen
    ```

1. When installation is done, run:
    ```shell
    jafgen [number of years to generate] # e.g. jafgen 6
    ``` 
    Replace `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` with the number of years you want to simulate. This command builds the CSV files and stores them in the `jaffle-data` folder, and is automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` file and the [dbt-duckdb](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup) adapter.

As you increase the number of years, it takes exponentially more time to generate the data because the Jaffle Shop stores grow in size and number. For a good balance of data size and time to build, dbt Labs suggests a maximum of 6 years.
## Next steps

> Now that you understand the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing changes and, scheduling a job. 

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you've got dbt Core, DuckDB, and the Jaffle Shop data up and running, you can explore dbt's capabilities. Refer to these materials to get a better understanding of dbt projects and commands:

- The [About projects](/docs/build/projects) page guides you through the structure of a dbt project and its components.
- [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands) explains the various commands available and what they do.
- [dbt Labs courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) offer a variety of beginner, intermediate, and advanced learning modules designed to help you become a dbt expert. 
- Once you see the potential of dbt and what it can do for your organization, sign up for a free trial of [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup). It's the fastest and easiest way to deploy dbt today!
- Check out the other [quickstart guides](/quickstarts) to begin integrating into your existing data warehouse.

Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing changes and, scheduling a job. 
```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:13  

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> 15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1

Author: ```suggestion

```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> (venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build

Author: ```suggestion

```

---
title: Quickstart for dbt Core using DuckDB
id: duckdb
description: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
hoverSnippet: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
platform: 'dbt-core'
icon: 'duckdb-seeklogo'
level: 'Beginner'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Core','Quickstart']
---

<div style={{maxWidth: '900px'}}>

## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Core with DuckDB, enabling you to get set up quickly and efficiently. [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) is an open-source database management system which is designed for analytical workloads. It is designed to provide fast and easy access to large datasets, making it well-suited for data analytics tasks. 

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

- Create a virtual development environment using a template provided by dbt Labs.
   - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.

>    - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.

Author: ```suggestion
   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
```

>    - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.

Author: ```suggestion
   - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.
```

- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).

You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 

### Related content

- [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)
- [Schedule a job](/guides/manual-install?step=5)

## Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

This section will provide a step-by-step guide for setting up DuckDB for use in local (Mac and Windows) environments and web browsers.

> In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.

Author: ```suggestion
In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/requirements.txt) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.
```

The `requirements.txt` file is placed at the top level of your dbt project directory, alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:

```shell

/my_dbt_project/
├── dbt_project.yml
├── models/
│   ├── my_model.sql
├── tests/
│   ├── my_test.sql
└── requirements.txt

```

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

> <Tabs>

Author: ```suggestion
<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="local" label="Local">
```

15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28
    
For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

:::note

The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

:::

### Troubleshoot

    <Expandable alt_header="Could not set lock on file error" >

    ```Jinja

    IO Error: Could not set lock on file "jaffle_shop.duckdb": Resource temporarily unavailable

    ```

    This is a known issue in DuckDB. Try disconnecting from any sessions that are locking the database. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).

    As a last resort, deleting the database file will get you back in action (_but_ you will lose all your data).

    </Expandable>

  </TabItem>
 

> <TabItem value="web" label="Web browser">

Author: ```suggestion
   <TabItem value="web" label="Web browser">
```

>    <TabItem value="web" label="Web browser">

Author: ```suggestion
  <TabItem value="web" label="Web browser">
```

> 1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/gwenwindflower/octocatalog) after you log in to your GitHub account. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) after you log in to your GitHub account. 
```

> 1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) after you log in to your GitHub account. 

Author: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `jaffle-shop-template` [repository](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb) after you log in to your GitHub account. 
```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

>   </TabItem>

Author: ```suggestion
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

> ```Jinja

Author: ```suggestion

```

- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

This section will provide a step-by-step guide for setting up DuckDB for use in local (Mac and Windows) environments and web browsers.

In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/requirements.txt) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.

The `requirements.txt` file is placed at the top level of your dbt project directory, alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:

```shell

/my_dbt_project/
├── dbt_project.yml
├── models/
│   ├── my_model.sql
├── tests/
│   ├── my_test.sql
└── requirements.txt

```

For more information on the setup of DuckDB, you can refer to [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup).

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="local" label="Local">

> <TabItem value="local" label="Local">

Author: ```suggestion

```

    - [dbt docs serve](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) &mdash; starts a webserver on port 8080 to serve your documentation locally and opens the documentation site in your default browser.

Here's what a successful output will look like:

```jinja

(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
....

15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  

> 15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28

Reviewer 5: Hey @nataliefiann, I believe this is where the failure is occurring. This jinja block is missing the closing ``` marks.

15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28
    
For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

:::note

The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

:::

### Troubleshoot

    <Expandable alt_header="Could not set lock on file error" >

    ```Jinja

    IO Error: Could not set lock on file "jaffle_shop.duckdb": Resource temporarily unavailable

    ```

    This is a known issue in DuckDB. Try disconnecting from any sessions that are locking the database. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).

    As a last resort, deleting the database file will get you back in action (_but_ you will lose all your data).

    </Expandable>

> </TabItem>

Author: ```suggestion
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>
```

    When this command completes, you can start using the codespace development environment. The terminal the command ran in will close and you will get a prompt in a brand new terminal. 

1. At the terminal's prompt, you can execute any dbt command you want. For example:

    ```shell
    /workspaces/test (main) $ dbt build
    ```

    You can also use the [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.
    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

>   </Tabs>

Author: ```suggestion

```

>   </Tabs>

Reviewer 5: There are two closing `</Tabs>` elements here. One of these will need to be removed.

</Tabs>

> Here's what a successful output will look like:

Author: ```suggestion

```

## Next steps

Now that you've got dbt Core, DuckDB, and the Jaffle Shop data up and running, you can explore dbt's capabilities. Refer to these materials to get a better understanding of dbt projects and commands:

- The [About projects](/docs/build/projects) page guides you through the structure of a dbt project and its components.
- [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands) explains the various commands available and what they do.
- [dbt Labs courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) offer a variety of beginner, intermediate, and advanced learning modules designed to help you become a dbt expert. 
- Once you see the potential of dbt and what it can do for your organization, sign up for a free trial of [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup). It's the fastest and easiest way to deploy dbt today!
- Check out the other [quickstart guides](/quickstarts) to begin integrating into your existing data warehouse.

Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing changes and, scheduling a job. 

### Document a job

> ### Commit changes

Author: ```suggestion
### Commit your changes

Commit your changes to ensure the repository is up to date with the latest code.

In the GitHub repository you created for your project, run the following commands in Terminal.

```shell
git add 
git commit -m "Your commit message"
git push
```

```

15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28
    
For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

:::note

The steps will fail if you decide to run this project in your data warehouse (outside of this DuckDB demo). You will need to reconfigure the project files for your warehouse. Definitely consider this if you are using a community-contributed adapter.

:::

### Troubleshoot

    <Expandable alt_header="Could not set lock on file error" >

    ```Jinja

    IO Error: Could not set lock on file "jaffle_shop.duckdb": Resource temporarily unavailable

    ```

    This is a known issue in DuckDB. Try disconnecting from any sessions that are locking the database. If you are using DBeaver, this means shutting down DBeaver (disconnecting doesn't always work).

    As a last resort, deleting the database file will get you back in action (_but_ you will lose all your data).

    </Expandable>

  </TabItem>

> </Tabs>

Author: ```suggestion

```

As you increase the number of years, it takes exponentially more time to generate the data because the Jaffle Shop stores grow in size and number. For a good balance of data size and time to build, dbt Labs suggests a maximum of 6 years.
## Next steps

Now that you've got dbt Core, DuckDB, and the Jaffle Shop data up and running, you can explore dbt's capabilities. Refer to these materials to get a better understanding of dbt projects and commands:

- The [About projects](/docs/build/projects) page guides you through the structure of a dbt project and its components.
- [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands) explains the various commands available and what they do.
- [dbt Labs courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) offer a variety of beginner, intermediate, and advanced learning modules designed to help you become a dbt expert. 
- Once you see the potential of dbt and what it can do for your organization, sign up for a free trial of [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup). It's the fastest and easiest way to deploy dbt today!
- Check out the other [quickstart guides](/quickstarts) to begin integrating into your existing data warehouse.

> Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing changes and, scheduling a job. 

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing your changes and, scheduling a job. 
```

> Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting a project, committing your changes and, scheduling a job. 

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting your project, committing your changes and, scheduling a job. 
```

> ### Document a job

Author: ```suggestion
### Document your project
```

### Commit your changes

Commit your changes to ensure the repository is up to date with the latest code.

In the GitHub repository you created for your project, run the following commands in Terminal.

```shell
git add 
git commit -m "Your commit message"
git push

> ### Schedule a job

Author: ```suggestion
### Schedule a job

1. Ensure dbt Core is installed and configured to connect to your DuckDB instance.
2. Create a dbt project and define your [`models`](/docs/build/models), [`seeds`](/reference/seed-properties), and [`tests`](/reference/commands/test).
3. Use a scheduler such [Prefect](/docs/deploy/deployment-tools#prefect) to schedule your dbt runs. You can create a DAG (Directed Acyclic Graph) that triggers dbt commands at specified intervals.
4. Write a script that runs your dbt commands, such as [`dbt run`](/reference/commands/run), `dbt test` and more so.
5. Use your chosen scheduler to run the script at your desired frequency.

```

## Next steps

Now that you've got dbt Core, DuckDB, and the Jaffle Shop data up and running, you can explore dbt's capabilities. Refer to these materials to get a better understanding of dbt projects and commands:

- The [About projects](/docs/build/projects) page guides you through the structure of a dbt project and its components.
- [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands) explains the various commands available and what they do.
- [dbt Labs courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) offer a variety of beginner, intermediate, and advanced learning modules designed to help you become a dbt expert. 
- Once you see the potential of dbt and what it can do for your organization, sign up for a free trial of [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup). It's the fastest and easiest way to deploy dbt today!
- Check out the other [quickstart guides](/quickstarts) to begin integrating into your existing data warehouse.

Additionally, with your new understanding of the basics of using dbt Core with DuckDB, consider optimizing your setup by documenting your project, committing your changes and, scheduling a job. 

### Document your project

> 

Author: ```suggestion
To document your dbt projects with DuckDB, follow the steps:

- Use the `dbt docs generate` command to compile information about your dbt project and warehouse into `manifest.json` and `catalog.json` files
- Run the [`dbt docs serve`](/reference/commands/cmd-docs#dbt-docs-serve) command to create a local website using the generated `.json` files. This allows you to view your project's documentation in a web browser.
- Enhance your documentation by adding [descriptions](/reference/resource-properties/description) to models, columns, and sources using the `description` key in your YAML files.
```

### Commit your changes

Commit your changes to ensure the repository is up to date with the latest code.

> In the GitHub repository you created for your project, run the following commands in Terminal.

Author: ```suggestion
In the GitHub repository you created for your project, run the following commands in the terminal.
```

```shell
git add 
git commit -m "Your commit message"

> git push

Author: ```suggestion
git push
```
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
   ```
```

---
title: Quickstart for dbt Core using DuckDB
id: duckdb
description: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
hoverSnippet: "Learn to use dbt Core using DuckDB."
platform: 'dbt-core'
icon: 'duckdb-seeklogo'
level: 'Beginner'
hide_table_of_contents: true
tags: ['dbt Core','Quickstart']
---

<div style={{maxWidth: '900px'}}>

## Introduction

In this quickstart guide, you'll learn how to use dbt Core with DuckDB, enabling you to get set up quickly and efficiently. [DuckDB](https://duckdb.org/) is an open-source database management system which is designed for analytical workloads. It is designed to provide fast and easy access to large datasets, making it well-suited for data analytics tasks. 

This guide will demonstrate how to: 

- [Create a virtual development environment](/docs/core/pip-install#using-virtual-environments) using a template provided by dbt Labs.

>    - This sets up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   - We will set up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.
```

>    - We will set up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.

Author: ```suggestion
- We will set up a fully functional dbt environment with an operational and executable project. The codespace automatically connects to the DuckDB database and loads a year's worth of data from our fictional Jaffle Shop café, which sells food and beverages in several US cities.
```

>    - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.

Author: ```suggestion
- We'll run through the steps outlined in the `jaffle_shop_duck_db` repository, but if you want to dig into the underlying code further, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template.
```

>    - For additional information, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template. It includes instructions on how to do this, along with animated GIFs.

Reviewer 4: Should these two be indented? I think they should not as they are not referring to the virtual environment above it, but rather something that happens from within a virtual environment.

Reviewer 4: Like setting up a venv does not give you access to duckdb automatically

Reviewer 4: Also, I thought I was supposed to open the duckdb repo and read through, which wasn't necessary at this time. I think maybe rephrasing the last bullet as something like "we are going to run through the steps outlined in the jaffle_shop_duck_db repository, but if you want to dig into the underlying code further, you can find it there"

> - We'll run through the steps outlined in the `jaffle_shop_duck_db` repository, but if you want to dig into the underlying code further, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template.

Author: ```suggestion
- Run through the steps outlined in the `jaffle_shop_duck_db` repository, but if you want to dig into the underlying code further, refer to the [README](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/README.md) for the Jaffle Shop template.
```

- Run any dbt command from the environment’s terminal. 
- Generate a larger dataset for the Jaffle Shop café (for example, five years of data instead of just one).

You can learn more through high-quality [dbt Learn courses and workshops](https://learn.getdbt.com). 

### Related content

- [DuckDB setup](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup)
- [Create a GitHub repository](/guides/manual-install?step=2)
- [Build your first models](/guides/manual-install?step=3)
- [Test and document your project](/guides/manual-install?step=4)

## Prerequisites

- When using DuckDB with dbt Core, you'll need to use the dbt command-line interface (CLI). Currently, DuckDB is not supported in dbt Cloud.
- It's important that you know some basics of the terminal. In particular, you should understand `cd`, `ls` , and `pwd` to navigate through the directory structure of your computer easily.
- You have a [GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

## Set up DuckDB for dbt Core

This section will provide a step-by-step guide for setting up DuckDB for use in local (Mac and Windows) environments and web browsers.

> In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/requirements.txt) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project.

Author: ```suggestion
In the repository, there's a [`requirements.txt`](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle_shop_duckdb/blob/duckdb/requirements.txt) file which is used to install dbt Core, DuckDB, and all other necessary dependencies. You can check this file to see what will be installed on your machine. It's typically located in the root directory of your project alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`. Otherwise, we will show you how in later steps.
```

> Below is an example of the `requirements.txt` file is alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:

Author: ```suggestion
Below is an example of the `requirements.txt` file alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:
```

> The `requirements.txt` file is placed at the top level of your dbt project directory, alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:

Author: ```suggestion
Below is an example of the `requirements.txt` file is alongside other key files like `dbt_project.yml`:
```

```shell

/my_dbt_project/
├── dbt_project.yml
├── models/
│   ├── my_model.sql
├── tests/
│   ├── my_test.sql
└── requirements.txt

> ```

Reviewer 4: This whole section is kind of confusing. It is worded as if you need to take this file and put it in your repository, but that isn't true. It is in the repository already, and you just have to invoke it to bring in any necessary dependencies. I think this should be more of a callout, like, "hey we are going to install some dependencies below, if you want to check those out first, go to this file in the repo, otherwise, we will show you how in later steps."

For complete details, refer to the [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands).

Here's what a successful output will look like:

```jinja

(venv) ➜  jaffle_shop_duckdb git:(duckdb) dbt build
15:10:12  Running with dbt=1.8.1
15:10:13  Registered adapter: duckdb=1.8.1
15:10:13  Found 5 models, 3 seeds, 20 data tests, 416 macros
15:10:13  
15:10:14  Concurrency: 24 threads (target='dev')
15:10:14  
15:10:14  1 of 28 START seed file main.raw_customers ..................................... [RUN]
15:10:14  2 of 28 START seed file main.raw_orders ........................................ [RUN]
15:10:14  3 of 28 START seed file main.raw_payments ...................................... [RUN]
....

15:10:15  27 of 28 PASS relationships_orders_customer_id__customer_id__ref_customers_ .... [PASS in 0.32s]
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Finished running 3 seeds, 3 view models, 20 data tests, 2 table models in 0 hours 0 minutes and 1.52 seconds (1.52s).
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Completed successfully
15:10:15  
15:10:15  Done. PASS=28 WARN=0 ERROR=0 SKIP=0 TOTAL=28

```
To query data, some useful commands you can run from the command line: 

> - [`dbt show`](/reference/commands/show) &mdash; run a query against the data warehouse and preview the results in the terminal.

Reviewer 4: Maybe suggest a command here, like `dbt show --select "raw_orders"`

Reviewer 4: Also worth mentioning I had a very old dbt version on my computer that it used, and `dbt show` didn't exist at that time, so I had to upgrade dbt versions.

> - [`dbt show`](/reference/commands/show) &mdash; run a query against the data warehouse and preview the results in the terminal.

Author: ```suggestion
- `dbt show --select "raw_orders"` &mdash; run a query against the data warehouse and preview the results in the terminal.
```

    
    For complete information, refer to the [dbt command reference](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands). Common commands are:
    
    - [dbt compile](/reference/commands/compile) &mdash; generates executable SQL from your project source files
    - [dbt run](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/run) &mdash; compiles and runs your project
    - [dbt test](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/test) &mdash; compiles and tests your project
    - [dbt build](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/commands/build) &mdash; compiles, runs, and tests your project

  </TabItem>

</Tabs>

## Generate a larger data set

If you'd like to work with a larger selection of Jaffle Shop data, you can generate an arbitrary number of years of fictitious data from within your codespace. 

1. Install the Python package called [jafgen](https://pypi.org/project/jafgen/). At the terminal's prompt, run:

    ```shell
    python -m pip install jafgen
    ```

1. When installation is done, run:
    ```shell
    jafgen [number of years to generate] # e.g. jafgen 6
    ``` 

>     Replace `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` with the number of years you want to simulate. This command builds the CSV files and stores them in the `jaffle-data` folder, and is automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` file and the [dbt-duckdb](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup) adapter.

Reviewer 4: Should `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` be in the command above, like: `jafgen <NUMBER_OF_YEARS>`

>     Replace `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` with the number of years you want to simulate. This command builds the CSV files and stores them in the `jaffle-data` folder, and is automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` file and the [dbt-duckdb](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup) adapter.

Author: ```suggestion
    Replace `NUMBER_OF_YEARS` with the number of years you want to simulate. For example, to generate data for 6 years, you would run: `jafgen --years 6`. This command builds the CSV files and stores them in the `jaffle-data` folder, and is automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` file and the [dbt-duckdb](/docs/core/connect-data-platform/duckdb-setup) adapter.
```

As you increase the number of years, it takes exponentially more time to generate the data because the Jaffle Shop stores grow in size and number. For a good balance of data size and time to build, dbt Labs suggests a maximum of 6 years.
## Next steps

Now that you have dbt Core, DuckDB, and the Jaffle Shop data up and running, you can explore dbt's capabilities. Refer to these materials to get a better understanding of dbt projects and commands:

- The [About projects](/docs/build/projects) page guides you through the structure of a dbt project and its components.
- [dbt command reference](/reference/dbt-commands) explains the various commands available and what they do.
- [dbt Labs courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections) offer a variety of beginner, intermediate, and advanced learning modules designed to help you become a dbt expert. 
- Once you see the potential of dbt and what it can do for your organization, sign up for a free trial of [dbt Cloud](https://www.getdbt.com/signup). It's the fastest and easiest way to deploy dbt today!

> - Check out the other [quickstart guides](/quickstarts) to begin integrating into your existing data warehouse.

Author: ```suggestion
- Check out the other [quickstart guides](/guides?tags=Quickstart) to begin integrating into your existing data warehouse.
```
